# spydlog

Python bindings for [spdlog](https://github.com/gabime/spdlog) using [nanobind](https://github.com/wjakob/nanobind).

## Installation

Supported Python versions ranges from 3.8 up to the latest (3.14). Supported platforms are Windows, Linux and MacOs.

```bash
pip install spydlog
```

## Documentation

Please refer to the official documentation of [spdlog](https://github.com/gabime/spdlog/wiki) and see the [documentation](https://github.com/romainaugier/spydlog/blob/main/DOCUMENTATION.md) for examples.

## Performance

A benchmark against the native logger module is avaiable in benchmarks. The results are great, but some improvements can be made to the bindings (for console-logging especially).

| Library | Scenario | Messages/Second | Speedup vs Python |
|---------|----------|-----------------|-------------------|
| Python  | Console         |         5,093 |              1.0x |
| Python  | File            |        37,270 |              1.0x |
| Python  | Disabled        |     6,583,365 |              1.0x |
| spydlog | Console (MT)    |        13,651 |              2.7x |
| spydlog | Console (ST)    |        13,388 |              2.6x |
| spydlog | File (MT)       |     1,302,138 |             34.9x |
| spydlog | File (ST)       |     1,390,776 |             37.3x |
| spydlog | Async File      |     2,305,422 |             61.9x |
| spydlog | Disabled        |     3,955,180 |              0.6x |

## License and attribution

All material in this repository is licensed under an [MIT License](https://github.com/romainaugier/spydlog/blob/main/LICENSE).

## Acknowledgement

Some code and text of this repository has been generated by AI using Claude, via the web interface.

 - Python test code has initially been generated by Claude and modified by the author.
 - Python Stubs have been auto-generated by nanobind and fixed by Claude for better type inference and clear wrapping of C++ types not converted correctly by the nanobind generator.
 - Documentation has been generated by Claude given the existing stubs and code.
 - Benchmark code has been generated by Claude.

Although LLMs are not on-par with a human brain for everything, they do a good job when it comes to summarizing/generating text given a good input, that's why it was practical to use them in that case. Critical code (cpp bindings) has been written by hand and carefully reviewed and tested.
